README.md, before:

![enter image description here](https://www.singlearity.com/static/assets/Logo-PNG.png)
# Welcome to Singlearity!


Singlearity is a web-based service for baseball analytics.  It uses machine learning to make predictions based on a wide range of player and historical data.    These predictions can be used to make more effective pre-game and in-game strategy decisions and to provide for more accurate game simulations.

You can view the technical description of Singlearity at [Baseball Prospectus](https://www.baseballprospectus.com/news/article/59993/singlearity-using-a-neural-network-to-predict-the-outcome-of-plate-appearances/)

# Description

This repository contains sample R code for making programmatic calls to the Singlearity web service hosted at api.singlearity.com.

There are two closely related types of predictions that can be obtained:

* **Batter vs. Pitcher predictions (Singlearity-PA)**.   To generate batter vs. pitcher predictions, you must programmatically generate a **Matchup**.  A Matchup consists of a **Batter**, a **Pitcher**, the **Atmosphere** (containing things such as game location and weather), and a **State** (containing things such as score, inning, and baserunners).  A list of matchups can be submitted to the Singlearity server and it will return predicted outcomes for each matchup.  Visit the [singlearity.com](https://www.singlearity.com) website to see a GUI version of Singlearity-PA.

* **Game simulation predictions (Singlearity-Game)**.   Game simulations work by running hundreds or thousands of Monte Carlo simulations using the plate appearance outcomes provided by Singlearity-PA.   To generate game simulations, you must programmatically create home and away **Lineup**s.   The simulation may optionally include a starting **State** at some intermediate point in the game.  This would allow you to simulate, for instance, a tie game in the bottom of the 9th inning game with multiple runners on base, the #5 hitter coming to bat with a tired pitcher on the mound.   Currently, Singlearity-Game only supports simulating to the end of the half-inning.  With a very short piece of code, you could, for instance, simulate how successful each of ten different relievers would be in holding a lead in the bottom of the 10th inning when facing a given portion of the lineup.    It is possible to accurately simulate hundreds or thousands of games in just a few seconds. 

# Requirements

R 3.3+

## Installation

Obtain a Trial API key through the [Singlearity Contact Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdO_K9_6cGBG_iStuSMKbqUBRX3Z8RAYzNVFRBVIXuumVSjAg/viewform?usp=sf_link)



### Prerequisites

Install the dependencies

```
#R code
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("singlearity-sports/singlearity-R")
```


## Example Usage

**Create it**

Create a file ```pa_pred_very_simple.R``` in the same local directory with:

```
#pa_pred_very_simple.R

##########################################
# Make predictions for groups of batters vs groups of pitchers
##########################################
library(singlearity)
sing <- GetSinglearityClient()

#list of batters
batter_list = c('Mookie Betts', 'Justin Turner', 'Max Muncy', 'Cody Bellinger')

#list of pitchers
pitcher_list = c('Chris Paddack', 'Emilio Pagan')

#initialize empty lists
candidate_batters <- list()
candidate_pitchers <- list()

for (batter in batter_list)
{
  candidate_batters <- append(candidate_batters, sing$GetPlayers(name=batter))
}

for (pitcher in pitcher_list)
{
  candidate_pitchers <- append(candidate_pitchers, sing$GetPlayers(name=pitcher))
}

venue <- sing$GetVenues(stadium.name = 'Dodger Stadium')[[1]]
atmosphere <- Atmosphere$new(venue = venue, temperature = 70, home_team = sing$GetTeams(name = 'Dodgers')[[1]])

matchups <- list()
for (b in candidate_batters)
{
  for (p in candidate_pitchers)
  {
    matchups <- append(matchups, Matchup$new(batter = b, pitcher = p, atmosphere = atmosphere, state = State$new()))
  }
}

results <- sing$GetPaSim(matchup = matchups)
results <- results[c('batter_name', 'pitcher_name', 'hr_exp', 'so_exp', 'ba_exp', 'ops_exp', 'woba_exp')]
results <- results[order(results$woba_exp, decreasing = TRUE), ]
print(results)
```

**Run it**
```
env SINGLEARITY_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY R -f pa_pred_very_simple.R
```
**Results**
```
     batter_name  pitcher_name     hr_exp    so_exp    ba_exp   ops_exp  woba_exp
1 Cody Bellinger  Emilio Pagan 0.06445228 0.2767457 0.2708578 0.8931689 0.3793040
5 Cody Bellinger Chris Paddack 0.06079568 0.2637437 0.2697733 0.8667926 0.3687907
7   Mookie Betts Chris Paddack 0.04069185 0.2468077 0.2526243 0.7726798 0.3346327
3   Mookie Betts  Emilio Pagan 0.04121564 0.2647337 0.2463460 0.7623101 0.3301859
6  Justin Turner Chris Paddack 0.04053899 0.2703831 0.2423686 0.7216711 0.3125078
2      Max Muncy  Emilio Pagan 0.04984803 0.3925197 0.2065340 0.7132002 0.3099304
4  Justin Turner  Emilio Pagan 0.04254675 0.2940399 0.2347854 0.7125016 0.3079187
8      Max Muncy Chris Paddack 0.04582457 0.3740999 0.2098127 0.7025451 0.3065602
```

## Command Line Usage
```examples/cmd_pa_pred.R``` is a command line utility for quickly generating batter vs. pitcher predictions.   It is a "swiss-army knife" for creating matchups with various different options.  The source code can also be examined to view the R code necessary to generate different options.   To run this command line, type:

```cmd_pa_pred.R```      - you will likely need to make this file executable 
or 
```R -f cmd_pa_pred.R```

To see a list of options, type:
 ```cmd_pa_pred.R --help```

This results in:
```Usage: ./cmd_pa_pred.R [options]


Options:
	--batters=BATTERS
		comma separated list of batter names.   Default 'Mookie Betts, Cody Bellinger'

	--pitchers=PITCHERS
		comma separated list of pitcher names.  Default 'Mike Clevinger, Chris Paddack'

	--venue=VENUE
		venue name.  Default 'Dodger Stadium' 

	--hometeam=HOMETEAM
		name of home team.  Default Dodgers

	--date=DATE
		date of the game (use format like 2018-08-25).  Defaults to today's date

	--inning=INNING
		inning. Default 1

	--outs=OUTS
		outs. Default 0

	--on1b
		true if runner on first. Default FALSE

	--on2b
		true if runner on second. Default FALSE

	--on3b
		true if runner on third. Default FALSE

	--temperature=TEMPERATURE
		temperature at start time.  Default 70

	--batscore=BATSCORE
		batting team's score. Default 0

	--fieldscore=FIELDSCORE
		fielding team's score. Default 0

	--pitchnumber=PITCHNUMBER
		pitcher's pitch count at start of the at bat

	--predictiontype=PREDICTIONTYPE
		Type of prediction.  Choose either 'ab_outcome', 'ab_woba', 'ab_woba_no_state'.  Default 'ab_outcome'

	--plot=PLOT
		comma separated list of values to plot e.g. 'woba, hr, so'

	-h, --help
		Show this help message and exit

```
**Sample Command Line**
Here is an example of using the command line to generate matchups.
``` ./cmd_pa_pred.R --batters='Joc Pederson, Giancarlo Stanton' --pitchers='Blake Snell, Zack Greinke' --venue='Yankee Stadium' --hometeam='Yankees' --inning=6 --pitchnumber=80 --outs=1 --on2b --temperature=90 --plot=woba```


## Example Visualizations
It is easy to combine the Singlearity prediction outputs with libraries such as ggplot to create visualizations which communicate the important information efficiently.  [Here is an example in R](https://github.com/singlearity-sports/singlearity-R/blob/master/examples/wOBA_by_pitch_count.R "Here is an example") showing each batter's expected wOBA as Max Scherzer's pitch count increases.

![enter image description here](https://github.com/singlearity-sports/singlearity-R/blob/master/resources/woba_by_pitch_count.png)

It is also easy to create visualizations which efficiently represent the data needed to make player substitutions.   [Here is an example in R](https://github.com/singlearity-sports/singlearity-R/blob/master/examples/batters_vs_pitchers.R "Here is an example in R") showing the predicted wOBA for each Dodgers batter vs. each Padres pitcher.  These predictions and their visualizations take only a few seconds to produce. 

![enter image description here](https://github.com/singlearity-sports/singlearity-R/blob/master/resources/woba_batter_vs_pitcher.png)
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTExOTExOTE3MDFdfQ==
-->

Commit message:

Added --bottom option to cmd_pa_pred.R

README.md, after:

![enter image description here](https://www.singlearity.com/static/assets/Logo-PNG.png)
# Welcome to Singlearity!


Singlearity is a web-based service for baseball analytics.  It uses machine learning to make predictions based on a wide range of player and historical data.    These predictions can be used to make more effective pre-game and in-game strategy decisions and to provide for more accurate game simulations.

You can view the technical description of Singlearity at [Baseball Prospectus](https://www.baseballprospectus.com/news/article/59993/singlearity-using-a-neural-network-to-predict-the-outcome-of-plate-appearances/)

# Description

This repository contains sample R code for making programmatic calls to the Singlearity web service hosted at api.singlearity.com.

There are two closely related types of predictions that can be obtained:

* **Batter vs. Pitcher predictions (Singlearity-PA)**.   To generate batter vs. pitcher predictions, you must programmatically generate a **Matchup**.  A Matchup consists of a **Batter**, a **Pitcher**, the **Atmosphere** (containing things such as game location and weather), and a **State** (containing things such as score, inning, and baserunners).  A list of matchups can be submitted to the Singlearity server and it will return predicted outcomes for each matchup.  Visit the [singlearity.com](https://www.singlearity.com) website to see a GUI version of Singlearity-PA.

* **Game simulation predictions (Singlearity-Game)**.   Game simulations work by running hundreds or thousands of Monte Carlo simulations using the plate appearance outcomes provided by Singlearity-PA.   To generate game simulations, you must programmatically create home and away **Lineup**s.   The simulation may optionally include a starting **State** at some intermediate point in the game.  This would allow you to simulate, for instance, a tie game in the bottom of the 9th inning game with multiple runners on base, the #5 hitter coming to bat with a tired pitcher on the mound.   Currently, Singlearity-Game only supports simulating to the end of the half-inning.  With a very short piece of code, you could, for instance, simulate how successful each of ten different relievers would be in holding a lead in the bottom of the 10th inning when facing a given portion of the lineup.    It is possible to accurately simulate hundreds or thousands of games in just a few seconds. 

# Requirements

R 3.3+

## Installation

Obtain a Trial API key through the [Singlearity Contact Form](https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdO_K9_6cGBG_iStuSMKbqUBRX3Z8RAYzNVFRBVIXuumVSjAg/viewform?usp=sf_link)



### Prerequisites

Install the dependencies

```
#R code
install.packages("devtools")
devtools::install_github("singlearity-sports/singlearity-R")
```


## Example Usage

**Create it**

Create a file ```pa_pred_very_simple.R``` in the same local directory with:

```
#pa_pred_very_simple.R

##########################################
# Make predictions for groups of batters vs groups of pitchers
##########################################
library(singlearity)
sing <- GetSinglearityClient()

#list of batters
batter_list = c('Mookie Betts', 'Justin Turner', 'Max Muncy', 'Cody Bellinger')

#list of pitchers
pitcher_list = c('Chris Paddack', 'Emilio Pagan')

#initialize empty lists
candidate_batters <- list()
candidate_pitchers <- list()

for (batter in batter_list)
{
  candidate_batters <- append(candidate_batters, sing$GetPlayers(name=batter))
}

for (pitcher in pitcher_list)
{
  candidate_pitchers <- append(candidate_pitchers, sing$GetPlayers(name=pitcher))
}

venue <- sing$GetVenues(stadium.name = 'Dodger Stadium')[[1]]
atmosphere <- Atmosphere$new(venue = venue, temperature = 70, home_team = sing$GetTeams(name = 'Dodgers')[[1]])

matchups <- list()
for (b in candidate_batters)
{
  for (p in candidate_pitchers)
  {
    matchups <- append(matchups, Matchup$new(batter = b, pitcher = p, atmosphere = atmosphere, state = State$new()))
  }
}

results <- sing$GetPaSim(matchup = matchups)
results <- results[c('batter_name', 'pitcher_name', 'hr_exp', 'so_exp', 'ba_exp', 'ops_exp', 'woba_exp')]
results <- results[order(results$woba_exp, decreasing = TRUE), ]
print(results)
```

**Run it**
```
env SINGLEARITY_API_KEY=YOUR_API_KEY R -f pa_pred_very_simple.R
```
**Results**
```
     batter_name  pitcher_name     hr_exp    so_exp    ba_exp   ops_exp  woba_exp
1 Cody Bellinger  Emilio Pagan 0.06445228 0.2767457 0.2708578 0.8931689 0.3793040
5 Cody Bellinger Chris Paddack 0.06079568 0.2637437 0.2697733 0.8667926 0.3687907
7   Mookie Betts Chris Paddack 0.04069185 0.2468077 0.2526243 0.7726798 0.3346327
3   Mookie Betts  Emilio Pagan 0.04121564 0.2647337 0.2463460 0.7623101 0.3301859
6  Justin Turner Chris Paddack 0.04053899 0.2703831 0.2423686 0.7216711 0.3125078
2      Max Muncy  Emilio Pagan 0.04984803 0.3925197 0.2065340 0.7132002 0.3099304
4  Justin Turner  Emilio Pagan 0.04254675 0.2940399 0.2347854 0.7125016 0.3079187
8      Max Muncy Chris Paddack 0.04582457 0.3740999 0.2098127 0.7025451 0.3065602
```

## Command Line Usage
```examples/cmd_pa_pred.R``` is a command line utility for quickly generating batter vs. pitcher predictions.   It is a "swiss-army knife" for creating matchups with various different options.  The source code can also be examined to view the R code necessary to generate different options.   To run this command line, type:

```cmd_pa_pred.R```      - you will likely need to make this file executable 
or 
```R -f cmd_pa_pred.R```

To see a list of options, type:
 ```cmd_pa_pred.R --help```

This results in:
```Usage: ./cmd_pa_pred.R [options]


Options:
	--batters=BATTERS
		comma separated list of batter names.   Default 'Mookie Betts, Cody Bellinger'

	--pitchers=PITCHERS
		comma separated list of pitcher names.  Default 'Mike Clevinger, Chris Paddack'

	--venue=VENUE
		venue name.  Default 'Dodger Stadium' 

	--hometeam=HOMETEAM
		name of home team.  Default Dodgers

	--date=DATE
		date of the game (use format like 2018-08-25).  Defaults to today's date

	--inning=INNING
		inning. Default 1

	--bottom
		true if bottom of the inning. Default FALSE 

--bottom
		true if top half of the inning. Default FALSE

	--outs=OUTS
		outs. Default 0

	--on1b
		true if runner on first. Default FALSE

	--on2b
		true if runner on second. Default FALSE

	--on3b
		true if runner on third. Default FALSE

	--temperature=TEMPERATURE
		temperature at start time.  Default 70

	--batscore=BATSCORE
		batting team's score. Default 0

	--fieldscore=FIELDSCORE
		fielding team's score. Default 0

	--pitchnumber=PITCHNUMBER
		pitcher's pitch count at start of the at bat

	--predictiontype=PREDICTIONTYPE
		Type of prediction.  Choose either 'ab_outcome', 'ab_woba', 'ab_woba_no_state'.  Default 'ab_outcome'

	--plot=PLOT
		comma separated list of values to plot e.g. 'woba, hr, so'

	-h, --help
		Show this help message and exit

```
**Sample Command Line**
Here is an example of using the command line to generate matchups.
``` ./cmd_pa_pred.R --batters='Joc Pederson, Giancarlo Stanton' --pitchers='Blake Snell, Zack Greinke' --venue='Yankee Stadium' --hometeam='Yankees' --inning=6 --pitchnumber=80 --outs=1 --on2b --temperature=90 --plot=woba```


## Example Visualizations
It is easy to combine the Singlearity prediction outputs with libraries such as ggplot to create visualizations which communicate the important information efficiently.  [Here is an example in R](https://github.com/singlearity-sports/singlearity-R/blob/master/examples/wOBA_by_pitch_count.R "Here is an example") showing each batter's expected wOBA as Max Scherzer's pitch count increases.

![enter image description here](https://github.com/singlearity-sports/singlearity-R/blob/master/resources/woba_by_pitch_count.png)

It is also easy to create visualizations which efficiently represent the data needed to make player substitutions.   [Here is an example in R](https://github.com/singlearity-sports/singlearity-R/blob/master/examples/batters_vs_pitchers.R "Here is an example in R") showing the predicted wOBA for each Dodgers batter vs. each Padres pitcher.  These predictions and their visualizations take only a few seconds to produce. 

![enter image description here](https://github.com/singlearity-sports/singlearity-R/blob/master/resources/woba_batter_vs_pitcher.png)
<!--stackedit_data:
eyJoaXN0b3J5IjpbLTExOTExOTE3MDFdfQ==
-->
